# Python Projects

In this project, I have two data sourcees, one on a company's financial budget and other is the voting data of a county 

## Before starting the assignment, have done the following:

* Created a new repository for this project called `python-challenge`

* Cloned the new repository to my laptop

* Created a directory for each data source, **PyBank** and  **PyPoll**.

* Inside of each folder, added the following:

  * A new file called `main.py`. This will be the main script to run for each analysis.
  * A `Resources` folder that contains the CSV files used. 
  * An `analysis` folder that contains a text file that has the results from analysis.


## Budget Analysis  in PyBank

Created a Python script to analyze the financial records of a company. 
Source file is budget_data.csv and is composed of two columns: "Date" and "Profit/Losses"

A Python script has been created that analyzes the records to calculate each of the following:

* The total number of months in the dataset

* The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period

* The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of those changes

* The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period

* The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the entire period


Final script prints the analysis to the terminal and also exports it into a text file .

## Polling Data Analysis in PyPoll

Helping a small, rural town modernize its vote counting process.

Source file is  election_data.csv and is composed of three columns: "Voter ID", "County", and "Candidate". 
Created a Python script that analyzes the votes and calculates each of the following:

* The total number of votes cast

* A complete list of candidates who received votes

* The percentage of votes each candidate won

* The total number of votes each candidate won

* The winner of the election based on popular vote.

Final script prints the analysis to the terminal and also exports it to a text file with the results.

Skills demonstrated:
  * read and write files in various formats; 
  *to store contents in variables, lists, and dictionaries; 
  *to iterate through basic data structures; 
  *to iterate through records in a csv file and perform opperations on them
  *to access keys and values from a dictionary, in a dynamic manner and work on these accessible values and keys and store outputs in desired formats
  *and to debug along the way. 
  


## References

Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only.

- - -

© 2022 edX Boot Camps LLC. Confidential and Proprietary. All Rights Reserved.
